# GSX module

* [GSX module](#gsx-module)
    * [Remarks](#remarks)
    * [Configuration](#configuration)
    * [Making the `certbundle.pem`](#making-the-certbundlepem)
    * [Populating GSX Information](#populating-gsx-information)

Updates warranty status from Apple, designed as a warranty module supplement.

The GSX table provides the following information:

* Warranty status
* Coverage end date
* Coverage start date
* Days of coverage remaining, as last pulled from GSX
* Estimated purchase date
* Country of purchase
* Registration date
* Product decryption
* Shipping configuration
* Contract coverage end date
* Contract coverage start date
* Warranty contract type
* Labor covered
* Parts covered
* Warranty Service Level Agreement
* Is Mac a GSX loaner Mac
* Human readable warranty status
* Is vintage Mac
* Is obsolete Mac

The GSX module also updates the warranty and machine tables with the following:

* Purchase date
* Warranty end date
* Warranty status
* Product description

---

Data can be viewed under the GSX tab on the client details page or using the GSX listings view

## Remarks


* Requires the SOAP extension installed in `php` http://php.net/manual/en/book.soap.php
* The client triggers the server to do a lookup once a day
* Obsolete Macs are not available from Apple and are instead processed using the warranty module's back end
* Previously it was recommended to only enable the GSX or the Warranty module, this has changed with MunkiReport 2.14 and the GSX module requires the Warranty module to be enabled

## Configuration

Before you use the GSX module, you need to configure the `config.php` file with your GSX account information.
See: https://github.com/munkireport/munkireport-php/blob/master/config_default.php#L348-L375

## Making the `certbundle.pem`

These steps assume you've created your SSL certificates using https://www.watchmanmonitoring.com/generating-ssl-certificates-to-meet-applecares-august-2015-requirements/

When creating the `certbundle.pem`, you must have the six signed pems sent back from Apple as well as the four gsx-* files generated by you that you sent to Apple. First put all 10 files into a folder. Let's call it GSX-Certs. 

Within the GSX-Certs folder, you need to cat your `gsx-production.key` and the Applecare-XXXX-Prod.apple.com.chain.pem together to form the bundle. In Terminal, cd to the GSX-Certs folder. Then run "cat Applecare-APP1234-0000123456.Prod.apple.com.chain.pem `gsx-production.key` > `certbundle.pem`" making sure to put your AppleCare and sold to number in place of the example numbers.

This will output a `certbundle.pem` file that is roughly 6.1KB in size. Treat this file and the rest of the GSX certificates as passwords. Protect them. All that's left is to make sure that the `certbundle.pem` contains the proper data, example below, and point MunkiReport to where it's stored in a web server readable place in the `config.php` with the `gsx_cert` parameter.

Additional material can be found at https://github.com/filipp/gsxlib#q-how-do-i-create-the-necessary-pem-file

Example `certbundle.pem`:

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
BLASOQ()*Q#()**)REW)*(EW*)*E)WUR)*EW(UR)
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
0990320003q43090435J403439590S-S=DS=-
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
)_#_)#)$IK_#@))KDE_)FD_SF)DSF_DS)FDS_FDSFSD
....
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
Proc-Type: ....
DEK-Info: ...
BUNCH OF GIBBERISH
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
```

## Populating GSX Information

Once you've configured the GSX module you'll probably want to recheck all of your existing warranty data against Apple's API. For an individual machine, that's easy - just go to Clients > Computer Name > Show (menu in the upper-left corner) > GSX > Recheck Warranty Status.  For an entire fleet, that's a fair amount of work.  Let's automate this.

First, open MunkiReport, then click Listings > GSX.  In the upper-left corner of the page, click the pop-up menu, then click All to display all of your Macs. In the upper-right corner of the page, click CSV.  Select everything on the page, copy it to the clipboard, and paste it into a new document in your favorite text editor (TextWrangler is free, just don't use TextEdit). Save it to your Desktop as `all-macs.csv`.

Next, we'll want to trim this down to just serial numbers. Open the Terminal, then paste this:

```sh
cd ~/Desktop && awk -F "\"*,\"*" '{print $2}' all-macs.csv > serials.txt`
```

Hit enter, and you should see a new text file appear on the Desktop, called `serials.txt`. Open that up in your text editor, and delete the first line (called Serial Number). Save and close.

Now, make a new document in your text editor, and call it `gsx_lookup_all.sh`, also saving it to your Desktop.  Paste this:

```sh
#!/bin/bash

MR_BASE_URL='https://yourmunkireportserver/index.php?'
MR_LOGIN='datauser'
MR_PASSWORD='secretpassword'
COOKIE_JAR=$(curl -s --cookie-jar - --data "login=${MR_LOGIN}&password=${MR_PASSWORD}" ${MR_BASE_URL}/auth/login)
SESSION_COOKIE=$(echo $COOKIE_JAR | sed 's/.*PHPSESSID /PHPSESSID=/')

while read serial
do
   curl -s --cookie "$SESSION_COOKIE" ${MR_BASE_URL}/module/gsx/recheck_gsx/"$serial" >> gsx_lookup.log
done < serials.txt

exit 0
```

Be sure to edit `MR_BASE_URL`, `MR_LOGIN`, and `MR_PASSWORD` for your server information.

Open the Terminal, then paste the following:

```sh
chmod +x ~/Desktop/gsx_lookup_all.sh
```

Hit enter to make the script executable.  Then, finally, run the script:

```sh
~/Desktop/gsx_lookup_all.sh
```

Although it won't output anything to the Terminal, you can follow along in the log file, `gsx_lookup.log`.

After it's all done, you'll want to go back to MunkiReport > Listings > GSX and manually Recheck Warranty Status for any Macs that had errors.
